---
layout: post
title:  "kiPas 1.1.0"
date:   2012-02-12 15:43:18 +0100
tags: blog kipas
---
Finally submitted kiPas 1.1.0 to AppWorld!
While this release won’t bring too many new features to the end user, it is a significant release for several reasons:

First of all, the cryptographic functions have been entirely recoded, all of the hashing and decryption is now made in native code, this was the big change I wanted to complete before adding any new features. What does it bring? far better performances, specially when it comes to handling huge databases or big numbers for Key Encoding Rounds. With the previous pure AS3 implementation, a DB over 3MB with Key Encoding Rounds above 50000 could easily take a few minutes to decrypt and open, now with the Native implementation, this takes just a second, which feels a lot better, right? Performance was a major issue to me, and I encountered several difficulties while trying to solve this, after a visit at BBDevCon Europe last week, I finally got the answers I missed to finish this, and I can now go back to improving kiPas.

This release will also be the last one to support PlayBook OS1, with the imminent release of PlayBook OS2, I will now be focusing on redesigning the UI for a better look and feel, and added functionality (hint: search is next on the list), what I have seen of the new upcoming messaging app UI at BBDevCon convinced me it could be way better, and I plan to do it with BB10 phones forward compatibility in mind.

Finally, it brings in a few fixes and improvements:
* It is now possible to open the DataBase directly by pressing the keyboard Return key after filling the password.
* The Notes field was displaying extra line breaks, this has been fixed.
* The bug where two entries would display instead of just one when switching between apps has been fixed.